# a_aplusb_b-web-evaluation

## Description:
This repository contains code developed to evaluate $(a, a+b, b)$ webs.

## Instructions:
* run `python3 brackets.py a+b`
	* this will create a Catalan-number of bracket matchings in the file output.txt
* after compiling Main.java with `javac Main.java`, run `java Main`.
	* This takes in the bracket matchings in output.txt and generates
		* evaluations.txt, which uses the algorithm of Morrison [Mor15] to find the coefficients of each tangle diagram in the Jones-Wenzl $a+b$; and
		* lines.txt, which translates the bracket matchings into $(a+b,a+b)$-tangle matchings. This will be used later to geometrically evaluate each resolution of the Jones_Wenzl $a+b$.
* Now execute the GUI with `python3 gui_jw.py`
	* Draw $a$ loops on the left, and $b$ loops on the right.
	* Pressing "2" to switch to special-points mode, mark the $2(a+b) $ points in order (go along the bottom row left-to-right first, then the top row right-to-left). These $2(a+b)$ points form the Jones-Wenzl $a+b$. 
	* Now press "3" to switch to puncture mode, and input the two punctures. 
	* Finally, save the file using `Control+J`
* Finally, open `T_{n,n}-Calc.py`. Navigate to the part of the file called `HARDCODE LAND`. 
	* Input the `.json` file generated by the GUI as `file_path1`.
	* Input `lines.txt` as `file_path2`
	* Input `evaluations.txt` as `file_path3`
	* Scrolling a bit further down, to the second `HARDCODE` section, input the value of $q$ at which you would like to evaluate the $(a, a+b, b)$-webs.
* The program will output simplified expressions for the numerator and denominator of the evaluation of the $(a, a+b, b)$-webs in the monomial basis.

There are quite a few improvements that can be made to increase the
computational speed of the program. This was sufficient for our purposes, though.